{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 "palatino linotype"{\*\falt "book antiqua"};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mangal;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Mangal;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang3081 Default;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext17\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f2\fs28 Heading;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext17\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s18\sbasedon17\snext18\sb0\sa120\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283 Quotations;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment OpenOffice}{\vern4100}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
This article will details more particular qualities of poetic structure and how they arise. Now, I must preface this by saying that, while the specific details I discuss are important, in that their specificity is necessary in order to demark the nature of the structures I wish to discuss, I don't want to give the impression that a person who is actually experiencing poetry, and who has the imaginative capacity to do so and pick out its richness of meaning as it ripens in their mind, is limited to the kinds of structures that I discuss here in their strictness. I posit such structures in order to make it clear the\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
freedom}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ that such imagination enables, and to illustrate why it may be difficult for those who lack this imaginative freedom to feel out this potential richness in the same way. I don't want to imply that the meaning someone can gain from poetry is only possible through the transformation grammars discussed, rather they are a tool to demonstrate the potential difficulty of obtaining this meaning without SGP/VI.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Multiplicity and Out-of-Order\~ Interpretations:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\line }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Multiplicity of interpretation and Out-of-Order interpretation are two different but related aspects of poetic language that differ from what might be called 'non-poetic' language, and seem to be in part* enabled by SGP. I do not at all claim that either of these phenomena are impossible to comprehend without SGP, but I find that there are many cases where SGP biases my sense of interpretation in ways that make instances of poetic languages where these occur much more apparent and natural to perceive, instead of feeling barely apparent or forced.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Multiplicity}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ of interpretation is the possibility of having a single expression mean two things at once and have the subject/understander feel that the expression does actually mean both of these things simultaneously. The enhancement of this could perhaps be more accurately be considered an aspect of VI than SGP (even though both SGP and VI are effectively labels for different aspects of the same underlying thing), but it can be seen as an aspect of variant grammar all the same.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
For an example of this that offers some meaningful difficulties, look at the following exchange from Shakespeare's King Lear:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
KENT}
\par \pard\plain \s21\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283\widctlpar\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Is not this your son, my lord?}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
GLOUCESTER}
\par \pard\plain \s21\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283\widctlpar\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have\line so often blushed to acknowledge him, that now I am\line brazed to it.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
KENT}
\par \pard\plain \s21\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283\widctlpar\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf2\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
I cannot conceive you.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
GLOUCESTER}
\par \pard\plain \s21\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283\widctlpar\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf2\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Sir, this young fellow's mother could}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
: whereupon\line she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son\line for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
You may be able to see here that the word\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
conceive}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ is used in two different senses. First, by Kent, to say "I do not understand the meaning of/reason behind what you have said." and then, by Gloucester, to say "I was able to impregnate the mother of my son". But one aspect of this exchange that should be apparent is that it isn't two instances of the word\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
conceive}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ being used, which each instance of the word being used in the same way, but rather a single instance, which\~ Gloucester carries on with a sentence with an implied meaning:\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
"Sir, this young fellow's mother could [conceive (my son) (through) -me-]"}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
, with the section in square brackets being naturally unsaid implication and the\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
-me-}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ implied through a transformation of person from the 'you' of the previous utterance}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
.}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[FN1]\~ Now we could also say that the square bracketed part only needs to be implied in its meaning, and doesn't need to be subject to this kind of formal transformation\'97which is perfectly reasonable\'97but the fact that the single instance of conceive was already used in the context it was and naturally ends up inspiring the subject to feel this particular implication is something that I have no better means of explaining, as it seems to take advantage of structural similarities between the expressions to craft it (the intuition).\~ The combination of all these different transformations, along with the general unfamiliarity of the conventions of Elizabethan language in general (which may cause the audience to suspect that a given line may be uninterpretable, not because they haven't thought carefully enough about it, but because they are not privy to some context, or specific aspect of the language or culture of the time that they might need knowledge of), seems to make what might be otherwise straightforward wordplay into something that is less natural to interpret than Shakespeare may have intended. I will claim, based on my own experience, that attaining SGP does make this dialog significantly easier to perceive as something that, while not being natural speech, at least something that feels like a natural and sensible exchange in context. Whether this feeling of unnaturalness of the production of meaning here is caused chiefly by the multiplicity of interpretation, or whether it is a combination of this and other transformations and omissions that occur in the exchange that seem to make it difficult for a SGP}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
N}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ to interpret, I still hold that this is an example of specifically poetic language, the full experience of which seems to require SGP even if some aspect of its meaning could otherwise be explained through paraphrase.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\line }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Having said all this, I am hesitant to claim that all sentences, whether they be 'poetic' or not, really have a meaning that ultimately corresponds to some underlying base structure (or deep/D structure) that they are a transformation of []. Rather, as I have hinted at before*, I do believe that differences in structure themselves contribute to different forms of expression, including expressions that may not otherwise be possible to easily convey in another form.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[FN1] A 'direct' transfer of implication from the first sentence to the second would be:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf2\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
(I)/(this young fellow's mother) (cannot)/(could) conceive\~ you.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
This shows the inadequacy of directly importing the implication as a simple transformation, the sentence suggested makes no sense in itself and has to be read into. Even taking 'you' as implying 'me', more words are left unsaid, and it is up to the subject to pick up the difference. This would imply that either erasure phenomena, which will be discussed later, are involved, or that the spectator simply feels out the implication without needing there to be an explicit transformation to some d-structure...}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[Discuss the difference between ellipsis and erasure phenomena and how they are both implicitly involved in this example]}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Out-of-Order}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ interpretation is when the 'normal' grammatical order of words in a sentence is broken and rearranged into something that seems to imply a similar meaning (though possibly with difference nuances and structural features), but which is perceived as something that is not grammatically correct in ordinary language. The ability to do this in many particular ways seems to be something that most people can do without needing to possess SGP, the way most people can comprehend Yoda's speech in Star Wars and many other variations of word order in different dialects should attest to that. However the way this is often done in relatively free seeming and irregular ways (as opposed to consistently using a set of grammatical features in set ways in a dialect) in poetic writing can throw up problems regarding comprehension of the form and meaning of the writing, which I personally attest to.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
The issue of ungrammatical ordering of poetic writing is something that a number of linguists have grappled with. The issue is discussed as a kind of\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
displacement phenomena}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ in\~ Gary Stewart Thoms' PhD thesis\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiajfTjodfYAhXDm5QKHenbABsQFggpMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fling.auf.net%2Flingbuzz%2F001185%2Fcurrent.pdf&usg=AOvVaw22sMtOBRO_508tGVVFBA2K" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[1]}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}, but I want to analyse aspects of it here, such as the ways it is used specifically in poetry uniquely, so as to show how apprehension of it and the total effect it may have been intended to have might in part depend on SGP. In particular, it seems to have a special interaction with multiplicity, which biases a reader towards interpreting words in multiple orders and considering the potentially different meanings that each of those orders might provide, and this in particular seems to be inaccessible to those without SGP. This I will go over shortly. But first I want to start off with more basic examples of out-of-order phenomena in poetry:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Her lively looks a sprightly mind disclose,}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Quick as her eyes, and as unfix\'92d as those;}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
-Excerpt\~ from\~ Alexander Pope\'92s \'91The Rape Of The Lock\'92}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
-Comment here about intra-line the parallel grouping suggested by the conjunction between\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Her lively looks}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ and\~ \~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
a sprightly mind}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
, which wouldn't be as strong in the absence of the 'unlicensed' movement.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Here is an example of such an occurrence. We can feel that while, there is some sense to be made here, if something like this were to be said allowed in a clearly deliberate way, by someone speaking in a casual social context, that it would feel 'off' and queer, as it is outside the ordinarily acceptable grammar that we are likely used to. This is not to say that normal speech will always follow a given grammar and that anything said that doesn't conform to it would be felt to be similarly strange though, people slur, repeat words, inserts pauses and 'empty speech' into expressions, create idioms and conventions on a whim that don't conform to the formality of a given grammar etc. And yet, there does seem to be something different about poetic expressions like this, in that they seemingly alter the way we generalise grammar deliberately, in ways that wouldn't come about in ordinary speech. It doesn't seem to be the case the poets came together and decided to create a poetic dialect in which this kind of writing is supposed to work by convention, rather it makes more sense to see that it might be natural, that in composing such verse, the writing here was intended to be felt as a variation of a more normal dialect, as opposed to being an independent dialect in itself that might be used in a social context.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
We could view this as a displacement phenomena, in accordance with\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiajfTjodfYAhXDm5QKHenbABsQFggpMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fling.auf.net%2Flingbuzz%2F001185%2Fcurrent.pdf&usg=AOvVaw22sMtOBRO_508tGVVFBA2K" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
a Minimalist theory}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}, and I will not deny the use of this kind of analysis. Yet, at the same time, to view such deviation merely as deviation from a standard, where the 'real meaning' is to be discovered by finding the specific standard that is deviated from, and not see the rearrangement as a distinct form of expression itself, is a harsh mistake.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
In Owen Barfield's article on 'Form in Poetry', he has this to say about poetic rhythm and the ability of poetry to licence the movement of words from their normal positions:\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
'It is a beauty fashioned by instinct out of alliteration, assonance, and all the varying cadences that arise from the delicate superimposing of the natural speech-rhythm on a regular verse-rhythm. This music is quite inseparable from what I have described as \'93form,\'94 for an unmusical phrase can never even \'93mean\'94 the same as a musical one. The finer and more elusive of the word-associations are not elicited and blended in the same way, so that the state of memory produced by one is different from that produced by the other.\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Moreover, phrases of a different music must convey a different meaning. For example, an epithet following its noun does not mean quite the same as it does in its normal position in front.}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\chcbpat5\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f4
'}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
As examples, he gives quotations of lines from Milton's works:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
"Meadows trim with daisies pied"}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
"Teiresias and Phineus, prophets old"}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
It certainly seems meaningful to say that there is a sense here, in which "Trim meadows with pied daisies" and "old prophets" don't have the same meaning\'97the latter feeling incredibly dreary and almost insulting without the nobility imparted by the poetic phrasing.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Aristotle has also commented on this phenomena in his Poetics (in sections 21 and 22 in particular), and spoke of how how poetic diction, in its choice of words, order, presentation, and use of metaphor, benefits from being written in a way that feels foreign, like an exotic tongue that is still intelligible. As such, it makes sense then, if we are to consider poetic writing as a form of dialect, to see it as a kind of meta-dialect, one which has been taken up by poets in various ways in many languages for the qualities it imparts on their works, rather than something which has accumulated via cultural accident. You can see that, even when speaking of the Greek of his time, he calls attention to how the language used in poetic speech will specifically make use of 'unorthodox' word order in even commonplace phrases: "}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
domaton apo, 'from the house away,' instead of apo domaton, 'away from the house' "}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
So we seem to have, in poetic diction, a whole offshoot of normal language, one that seems to preserve certain qualities even when the source language from which the poetic language differs.*}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
-Possibly use hint from the critics and audiences Aristotle mentions that suggest that not everyone was appreciative of the language used, and that as such perceptions may have differed that caused this disparity.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Batter my heart, three-person'd God, for you\~ \line As yet but knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend;\~ \line That I may rise and stand, o'erthrow me, and bend\~ \line Your force to break, blow, burn, and make me new.\~ \line I, like an usurp'd town to another due,\~ \line Labor to admit you, but oh, to no end;\~ \line Reason, your viceroy in me,\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf2\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
me should defend}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
,\~ \line But is captiv'd, and proves weak or untrue.\~ \line Yet dearly I love you, and would be lov'd fain,\~ \line But am betroth'd unto your enemy;\~ \line Divorce me, untie or break that knot again,\~ \line Take me to you, imprison me, for I,\~ \line Except you enthrall me, never shall be free,\~ \line Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
*This shouldn't be surprising in the cases explored here given how the poetic culture that arose in Europe was directly influenced by the conventions of Greek and Latin poetry. The poetry of other cultures seems to bear marks of structure that are similar in kind, though distinct from the specific forms discussed here. But discussion of them is outside the scope of this article.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\line ---}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\line }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
I mainly bring up\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiajfTjodfYAhXDm5QKHenbABsQFggpMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fling.auf.net%2Flingbuzz%2F001185%2Fcurrent.pdf&usg=AOvVaw22sMtOBRO_508tGVVFBA2K" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Poetic language: a Minimalist theory}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}\~ because I want to bring in something relatively recent which systematically grapples with with poetry as a linguistic construct and, at the same time, addresses and criticizes a broad swathe of the alternatives that exist in the current literature, and which as such attempts to create a coherent theory by addressing perceived issues with those other approaches. But I want to draw attention to a particular claim made in its conclusion which I specifically disagree with and which I believe can be attacked in order to support the views of mine which strongly diverge from the thesis. An chief assumption made in the thesis, which is directly opposed to my own experiences, is that ultimately, the\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
meaning\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
of a given\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
poetic\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
sentence can be said to be directly equivalent to that of an\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
ordinary\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
sentence, i.e. there is a sentence to which no specifically poetic alterations from the 'normal' grammar have been made, which that poetic sentence can be considered a transformation of, and which ultimately\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
means}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ the same thing. Now, this is a greatly simplified paraphrase from what Gary Stewart Thoms has actually claimed, especially considering that his approach to modeling grammar in order to account for 'poetic language' is very different from mine and its creation and development is motivated by different reasons. However, I draw the comparison to explore how an alternate attempt at creating a 'poetic grammar' can differ when drawn from different assumptions and justifications, and to show that the systematic undertaking that it is, as an attempt to put other existing poetic theories into perspective and expose their potential flaws, doesn't show that the ideas I propose are wrong. The Minimalist Theory makes particular assumptions about meaning and its relation to structure, and because of this it has no reason or motivation to take into account the structures that are of fundamental importance to my own theory. It is not necessarily flawed on a fundamental level as its aims differ from mine, and I am not bringing it up to simply disparage it and the content it does deal with, as it even accounts for the possibility that there may be aspects of poetic meaning and grammar that simply happen to be outside the scope of its approach, but its core assumptions are irreconcilable with my experience of poetry and so I must point out why any potential criticism based on it is not justified on the basis it provides. He also assumes that the metaphors of poetic language are the same in kind as that of ordinary language, only except they often happen to be more complex and elaborately developed. This I also deny, my experience is that even relatively simple metaphors can be specifically poetic in a way that will be inaccessible to those who lack the faculties to perceive them, and hence different in kind (pointed out here\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2017/08/poetic-imagination.html" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2017/08/poetic-imagination.html}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}\~ ).}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Whereas the minimalist theory justifies things with respect to the existing linguistic theory dealing with ordinary language (exemplified by Chomsky's Minimalist Program, which it was created in line with) and the tools it offers for grappling with linguistic structures, I have already offered reasons to approach poetic language as an relatively exceptional phenomena, namely that SGP seems to offer the potential for a given mind to perceive meaning via specific kinds of structures which are not accessible to minds without it. As such it is reasonable to develop a framework which stands at least partly outside of the scope of the specific methods used by\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiajfTjodfYAhXDm5QKHenbABsQFggpMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fling.auf.net%2Flingbuzz%2F001185%2Fcurrent.pdf&usg=AOvVaw22sMtOBRO_508tGVVFBA2K" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Poetic language: a Minimalist theory}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}. Part of this should involve an attempt to explain what kinds of 'meanings' (in a very general sense, that may include things which might not be considered part of the meaning of ordinary language in a stricter sense) the experience of poetic language offers that don't normally play a part in non-poetic language.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
In my previous article (\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2017/08/poetic-imagination.html" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2017/08/poetic-imagination.html}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}\~ ), I offered something that attempts to demonstrate this. In particular, I wrote this}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
"It is in the composition of multi-layered metaphor into particular kinds of unified, vitalistic and abstract-yet-vividly-felt Ideas that VI (Vitalistic Imagination) is uniquely distinguished."}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ I did not elaborate much on what I meant, but I want to draw attention to this statement and to use examples of poetic works I've already discussed and\~ }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2016/10/looking-at-poetry-1-in-station-of-metro.html" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
analysed before}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}}\~ in order to make it clearer.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Again I quote Proust's\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
In A\~ Station At The Metro}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
:}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f3
The apparition of these faces in the crowd;}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f3
Petals on a wet, black bough.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
I have experienced this poem in two distinct ways. One, while lacking in SGP, and the other while having it. Because of this, I can say exactly (as far as I can recall and understand my own experience) what this poem offers to the poetically sensitive person that will not be available otherwise and why this is specifically dependent on SGP/VI, and hence unique to 'poetic language'.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
What mainly stands out is the way the juxtaposition of the two lines can be experienced. With SGP/VI, the reader is allowed a kind of free play of conceptual abstraction that arises from these two ideas being expressed directly next to each other in the particular way that they are. Namely, while the two phrases/ideas are contrasted, they are not forced into any particular, specified relation. You are not told that the "apparition of faces in the crowd" is\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
like}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ "petals on a wet, black bough", nor that they are unlike, or similar in appearance in a specific way. Instead you are simply struck with a kind of brilliant impression of the relation, as expressed by the poem\'97in its totality.\~ While I won't claim that this meaning/experience is necessary outright impossible to express/induce via other means, it seems to me unlikely that things that are not the poem itself will be able to achieve this.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf4\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Insert comment on Wittgenstein's thoughts on aesthetic irreducability.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
I will not claim that this relation is necessarily completely\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
abstract}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
, but it is in some fundamental way freer than the relations that a non-poetic interpretation of the lines would naturally allow. As such I believe that specifically poetic expressions can provide meaning/experience that the experience of 'equivalent' ordinary language doesn't provide, and that much of this will only be accessible to those who have obtained SPG/VI.*\~ What I do want to show with it though, is that, regardless of concerns of meter, word order, multiplicity, erasure and complexity of structure and metaphor, this act of basic, direct juxtaposition can give rise to specifically poetic experience, and as such, this example serve as a basic demonstration of what is poetically irreducible to ordinary language, even when the complexities of "specifically poetic" grammar are not a particularly deep concern here.**}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
*An SPG}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
N}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
, however, may be reading the poem and still wonder what it is that their experience is actually missing despite this explanation. After all, they are, as it seems, perfectly capable of looking at these two lines and thinking/imagining contrasts between them. If there is some experience that they do not have, and there is supposedly also nothing else that they have experienced so far that would be comparable to it, then how can they be sure they do actually lack it, given they may simply not be fond of the poem even if they do have SGP? In this case, the example here is used due to its simplicity in illustrating the most basic and seemingly fundamental elements of high poetry most clearly to those who do possess this capacity, and not because I thought it would by the best example for the sake of constructing a test. Several other examples with more elaborate constructs, including multiple forms of art, should be used for the sake of personal testing.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
**Though how the two lines specifically match up via the mental comparison between their beat structure that naturally arises in the poetically sensitive person is still somewhat interesting and has its own subtleties. In my impression: '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
of}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' matches with '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
on}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
', '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
a}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' / '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
these}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
', '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
wet}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' / '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
faces}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
', '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
black}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' / '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
in the}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
', '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
bough}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' / '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
crowd}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
'. '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
The apparition}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' seems to ambiguously overextend across '}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Petals}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
' though, which may be an essential part of the experience, so I won't attempt to define a comparative 'scan' for it. So, in this case, despite the relatively 'freeform' nature of the poem, SGP and the kinds structure it enables still play a crucial role in its experience.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
---}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
Now we come to a certain issue, what might be called a\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
poetic demarcation problem}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
. That is, is there any way to separate 'poetry' from 'non-poetry' so that we can take a given text or utterance and figure out, in general, whether it is 'poetic' or not. It is a problem which a number of people have attempted to give a solution to [2], and yet it is perfectly reasonable to expect that it will have no definite answer given its nature. This issue naturally requires clarification though. We initially have no concrete definition of poetry, and won't unless this particular problem itself is effectively solved. It doesn't really make sense to try to separate a given thing from what it is apparently not without a good method of doing so, especially if the reason for doing this is that it seems to be unclear what the thing is in the first place or how it would even be possible to clearly define it. In which case, why attempt to put serious effort into tackling the problem in the first place, as opposed to accepting that the very concept and how it is constructed may be the result of 'language games'[3] that don't seem to have a clear core? But maybe there could be a reason to attempt this anyway. Maybe, there seems to be some essence, something that barely seems describable, that feels impossible to adequately project into explicit terms, but that which what are commonly called poetic works seem to have in common. Again, a meaningful description of this essence may be difficult to impossible to describe, except via the experience of variations of whatever it is in actual poetry. But even if we could describe 'it', it's not clear what this would achieve, or if my 'it' is the same as yours. In which case, it would be a good idea to narrow the scope a bit.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
So are there certain aspects of poetry that are\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
in principle\~ distinguishable}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ from things that lack those aspects? To this I say\'97from my experience\'97yes. There absolutely do seem to be particular aspects of poetic experience which should be distinguished from others, namely those that specifically can only be experienced by those with a particular modal faculty (SGP/VI in this case). To make it clear what I am saying, I am not at all trying to give anything close to an ultimate definition of poetry, there are too many different things, and different aspects of works, that can validly be termed poetic that even attempting such a thing is arguably uninteresting, and ultimately pointless (and what use would some conception that said, for instance, that a nursery rhyme and a dialog of Plato's were both poetry in some sense anyway?). But, acknowledging that, there are particular aspects of the experience of poetry that can absolutely be distinguished in kind from other things, and this is possible by specifically acknowledging that there exist particular kinds of mental experiences and constructs that arise because of and which are dependent on SGP/VI, and those which are not. This allows a very meaningful principle from which such a demarcation can be made. But even then, actually determining what specific works have meaningful aspects to offer that only appear to those with this faculty isn't necessarily so easy. If you aren't able to personally experience a given work both with and without SGP, and perceive things in it you couldn't before that accord with the descriptions I have given (as I have), then the next best recourse is to get a number of people, some of whom possess SGP, and some of whom lack it (which itself also needs to be determined in the first place), and see if there are aspects that those who possess it can perceive that those who lack it consistently fail to wrap their heads around. For particular metric structures, this shouldn't be out of the realm of feasibility. But for vital metaphor, I suspect that, while not completely impossible, this would be much more difficult, as understanding how one's own mind comprehends metaphor and how this might differ from others in character is no easy task without your own personal experience in memory for comparison. Furthermore, given that our experience of all phenomena is naturally subjective and varying due to individual differences*, to the extent that the possession or non-possession of VI may have subtly different effects on a given person, there is is likely no way to make these kinds of distinctions absolutely.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
This is why I emphasis\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
in principal distinguishability}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
, the essential idea that the experience of those with a given modal faculty should differ in predictable ways overall, and that we can look at the difference in judgement of these people and acknowledge how this might occur in order to distinguish works that might be considered\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
high poetry[]}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ in general from works which not appeal to these particular imaginative faculties. As such, we could say things like, that while the particular excerpts form Frankenstein that were brought up previously were not written with any poetic structure in terms of formal meter or grammar, they do seem to make use of vital metaphor, which demands the ability to imagine metaphoric parallels in a particular way that is unique to SGP/VI, and as such can be classified as being\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
high}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ or\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
eidosic}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ writing by definition (which doesn't necessarily mean that the writing is of high quality, even if that is the case here, just that it makes use of this faculty).}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
---}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
The idea of particular kinds of juxtaposition being in some sense the core of poetry as a categorical tool is not an original idea. In particular Roman Jakobson attempted to explore how poetry might be seen in this way and how a theoretical approach could be developed around this. Roman Jakobson was a major figure in linguistics who sought an understanding of poetry through a linguistic lens. He was a strong advocate of poetics being a meaningful sub-branch of linguistics, worthy of study and examination in its own right as any other aspect of language and its use ideally ought to be. This general approach hasn't been as popular as I feel it could have been up until relatively recently, and his work is less used outside linguistics itself\'97many of other departments of humanities seem to be somewhat uncomfortable with his approach and the willingness to look deeply as the possibly technical aspects of a field that is rightly regarded as highly creative and open to interpretation. However, given I have serious insight on these topics to offer myself I believe that this overall attitude deserves a second look.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
He chose to identify a single phenomena as the defining feature of poetry, namely, that of parallelism, which in his writing was a generalisation of multiple different aspects. The two major aspects that he exemplified under this banner were those of\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
meaning}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
\~ and\~ }{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
line}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
...}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
-Comment on experiencing unity of the poem as a unique factor of SEC and how this factors in to .}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf4\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
SHOW HOW POETRY/NON-POETRY CAN BE IN PRINCIPLE SEPARABLE\~ AND HOW THIS ALLOWS, IN PART, A POTENTIAL SOLUTION TO THE POETIC DEMARCATION PROBLEM.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
*Though in principle an identical person should have identical thought to another unless thought is influenced differently by the non-physical.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[] This is not at all to discount the concept of deep structure/d-structure on a purely structural level, as a theoretical tool the idea of modeling sentences as transformations that modify some more more fundamental sentence structure (how or whether or not it exists in some specific form in the mind), is no doubt highly useful. What I am cautioning against is the idea that a given structure that may in some way derive from a D or canonical structure will have the same fundamental meaning as that structure, as opposed to having nuances that are generally interpreted differently. This this regard my views are closer to those expressed by Owen Barfield, in that at the very least I take it that the impression that a given expression leaves on the reader/listener is meaningfully effected by the form of the "surface utterance", which can't simply be assumed to be equivalent to whatever they may be considered a transformation of. I believe that this same principal applies to "canonical sequences" and the transformation of themes in music as well.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiajfTjodfYAhXDm5QKHenbABsQFggpMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fling.auf.net%2Flingbuzz%2F001185%2Fcurrent.pdf&usg=AOvVaw22sMtOBRO_508tGVVFBA2K" }{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[1]\~ Poetic language: a Minimalist theory}{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
}},\~  Gary Stewart Thoms, 2010}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[2] A chief, important figure in the development of theoretical, linguistic approaches to poetics was Roman Jakobson.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f3
[3]}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang3081{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }