{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 <i>"Sen no Rikyu, a tea-master, wished to hang a flower basket on a column. He asked a carpenter to help him, directing the man to place it a little higher or lower, to the right or left, until he had found exactly the right spot. "That's the place," said Sen no Rikyu finally.</i><br />\par
<i><br />The carpenter, to test the master, marked the spot and then pretended he had forgotten. Was this the place? "Was this the place, perhaps?" the carpenter kept asking, pointing to various places on the column.<br /><br />But so accurate was the tea-master's sense of proportion that it was not until the carpenter reached the identical spot again that its location was approved."</i><br />\par
<div>\par
<i>- Zen Koan</i></div>\par
<div>\par
<br />\par
<br />\par
Around a year ago, I was reading through Mary Shelly's Frankenstein, the edition containing the introduction by the author written in 1831 [2]. In it, Shelly describes how the novel's conception came about, how she and three other writers came to take part in a competition on Lord Byron's estate to create rival horror stories and how this lead to the idea of Frankenstein's monster being born out of her imagination.<br />\par
<br />\par
<i>'We will each write a ghost story,' said Lord Byron; and his proposition was acceded to. There were four of us. The noble author began a tale , a fragment of which he printed at the end of his poem of Mazeppa. Shelley, more adept to embody ideas and sentiments in the radiance of brilliant imagery, and in the music of the most melodious verse that adorns out language, than to invent the machinery of a story, commenced one founded on the experiences of his early life. Poor Polidori had some terrible idea about a skull headed lady, who was so punished for peeping through a keyhole - what to see I forgot -something&nbsp;very shocking and wrong of course; but when she was reduced to worse condition than the renowned Tom of Coventry, he did not know what to do with her, and was obliged to dispatch her to the tomb of the Capulets, the only place to which she was fitted. The illustrious poets also, annoyed by the platitude of prose, speedily relinquished their uncongenial task.</i><br />\par
<br />\par
And so here I came across this particular idea, though not for the first time, that 'mere' prose writing, though adequate for writing novels, setting out plots, describing things and so on, even quite beautifully, was seen by a significant group of of people as being fundamentally limited compared to what was possible with poetry. So we see here that there are those who hold the view that even grand and cleverly constructed stories could be lacking in comparison to what could be achieved with heightened language of a purer form. Prose could so express 'platitudes', but not the profound insights and original expressions that poetic language was capable of. There are many other examples of this line of thought, and many philosophers among those who take it, along with the poets themselves.<br />\par
<br />\par
Take this as an example:<br />\par
<br />\par
<h1 class="quoteText" style="background-color: white; color: #181818; font-family: merriweather, georgia, serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px; margin: 0px 0px 15px; padding: 0px;">\par
<span style="font-weight: normal;">\par
\ldblquote Poetry is related to philosophy as experience is related to empirical science. Experience makes us acquainted with the phenomenon in the particular and by means of examples, science embraces the whole of phenomena by means of general conceptions. So poetry seeks to make us acquainted with the Platonic Ideas through the particular and by means of examples. Philosophy aims at teaching, as a whole and in general, the inner nature of things which expresses itself in these. One sees even here that poetry bears more the character of youth, philosophy that of old age.\rdblquote &nbsp;</span>\u8213? Arthur Schopenhauer, The World as Will and Representation, Vol 1</h1>\par
<div class="quoteFooter" style="background-color: white; color: #181818; font-family: Lato, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 14px;">\par
</div>\par
Schopenhauer here, if I interpret him correctly, suggests that the function of poetry extends well beyond being a pretty or clever expression of something in a regular pattern, but that it can allow you to familiarize yourself with the fundamental, underlying Ideas behind reality through direct experience with them.<br />\par
<br />\par
There are many more myriad examples of how people say poetry can overcome the limitations of ordinary language:<br />\par
<br />\par
<a href="http://everything2.com/title/The+difference+between+poetry+and+prose">http://everything2.com/title/The+difference+between+poetry+and+prose</a><br />\par
<br />\par
I bring all this up because, at this point, beginning to read through Frankenstein as I was, I simple had no experience of any of this sort of thing what so ever, not an inkling of what they were talking about. The apparently deeply penetrating power of poetry that I had heard spoken of was a mystery to me, and had been so for years. I had dabbled in trying to understand this for myself, I looked up what blank verse actually was and how it supposedly was meant to be structured (something which was never mentioned during my time in public schooling), tried to scan the lines various poems to try to mark out an understanding of their rhythm. But this was frustrating to me, as apparently the few poems in which this was faintly comprehensible were 'rigid' in form and truly great and creative poets make use of breaks, alterations and flourishes that broke any of my attempts to follow their beat. For the simpler and more popular forms of poetry, the ones which fit into simple rhyming schemes and complete their thoughts on line breaks, limericks and assorted song lyrics among them, there was no issue in comprehending them, for the most part. But the 'freer' poetry that critics exalted, Shakespeare especially (and particularly), irked me; it didn't matter what I did, or how many times I went over the lines I wanted to honestly feel the effect of, no understanding came, no matter how much I looked up dictionary terms, or saw things acted out. But it wasn't simply that I didn't 'get it' that bothered me, it's that, on top of finding the material incomprehensible, it disturbed and disgusted me.<br />\par
<br />\par
<i>O, that this too too solid flesh would melt<br />Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!<br />Or that the Everlasting had not fix\rquote d<br />His canon \lquote gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!<br />How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,<br />Seem to me all the uses of this world!<br />Fie on\rquote t! ah fie! \rquote tis an unweeded garden,<br />That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature<br />Possess it merely. That it should come to this!</i><br />\par
<i><b>- Hamlet</b></i><br />\par
<br />\par
Reading this, it was difficult to imagine how could anyone find such language to be anything but repulsive. And, even if we look at poetry that makes use of rhyme, what of this?<br />\par
<br />\par
<i>Garlic and sapphires in the mud<br />Clot the bedded axle-tree.<br />The trilling wire in the blood<br />Sings below inveterate scars<br />Appeasing long forgotten wars.<br />The dance along the artery<br />The circulation of the lymph<br />Are figured in the drift of stars<br />Ascend to summer in the tree<br />We move above the moving tree<br />In light upon the figured leaf<br />And hear upon the sodden floor<br />Below, the boarhound and the boar<br />Pursue their pattern as before<br />But reconciled among the stars.</i></div>\par
<div>\par
<i><b>-T.S. Eliot, Burn Norton Quartet II</b></i><br />\par
<br />\par
If you believe you may be similar in mentality how I was at this time, I want to to honestly ask yourself this question. What images does this evoke in your mind? Could you conceive of how someone hearing this spoken might be impressed by it? I'll guess, that if you are in such a similar state and honestly look inward, you will feel the same and be equally as confused. For I suspect that if you are this way, that you are deficient of Poetic&nbsp;<a href="http://chromaticproduction.blogspot.com.au/2016/10/a-theory-of-perception.html">Super Grammar</a> and have little poetic sensitivity, then in reading these lines will be implored to imagine the raw imagery these poems suggest and directly expose yourself to the discomforting feelings implied. I say this because I do have an alternative to propose, namely that there might be a separate way of experiencing the ideas and imagery presented, a means of holding them in your mind that is different, which allows you to mentally collect them together, which doesn't leave you exposed to the rank and gross and melting flesh in your mind's eye, but which not everyone has access to. And yet, if you don't have this issue, if you are able to be moved by Hamlet's disturbed ideas expressed in verse, then I hope that you might come to understand why not everyone else is necessarily capable of this and may only be able to apprehend the ideas in a very different way.<br />\par
<br />\par
This next suggestion may seem strange, and it shouldn't should be surprising if it is to you, so I want to make it clear exactly how strange the idea I'm proposing it. My experience is such that, associated with SG I believe I developed a new form of imagination, different from anything that I was capable of beforehand. I propose that, hence, people with SG are literally able to imagine kinds of things that people without it cannot. So, if this is the case, I have a problem, and that is to describe exactly what this kind of imagination is to those who lack it. How does it relate to the experience of poetry and how could I describe it to those who have never experienced it, or convince them such a thing is even possible? In addition, there is a second, even more subtle issue. How should I go about showing people who have been capable of this for so long that they perceive it as an an innate, integrated part of their thoughts that it is in fact conditional, contingent and potentially separable from the rest of their thought process?<br />\par
<br />\par
To aid me in tackling this first problem, I will invoke the writings of Owen Barfield. Owen Barfield is a philosopher who is right now probably less know than he ought to be. He was a member of the inklings, a literary group which contained figures such as C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkein.<br />\par
<br />\par
One think that stuck me in developing SG was the way my perception of what most could consider ordinary language changed. Specifically, I became markedly aware of the use of metaphor in so called 'stock phrases'. This wasn't a matter of me simply becoming interested in the metaphorical aspects of language after experiencing them more fully in poetry, you'll have to trust me on this, rather, it was that my mind automatically, innately felt the metaphoric aspects of these phrases on using or encountering them, even where previously I wasn't even aware that they might have been metaphoric and had never felt I had a reason to care, even when this was explicitly brought to my attention. You see I had preciously heard people decry the use of thoughtless cliche, especially in combining stock phrases in ways that didn't make "metaphoric sense". These same people would instead advocate for the use of creative, original metaphor, praising particular examples of this that they felt were exceptional. The thing is you see, at the time I had no idea why anyone felt that way. To me, the way you use 'stock phrases' was simply 'the way you said things'. <span style="color: red;">As in, if you were to say</span><br />\par
<br />\par
<span style="color: red;">Even words themselves, like the word 'beautiful' will frequently cross my mind as a sum of their parts, 'beauty-full' simply because that aspect of them is so striking to me now.</span><br />\par
<span style="color: red;">'Immediate', without mediation (and hence instant or straight after).</span><br />\par
<span style="color: red;">I don't go out of my way to think about these things, but the constructional aspects of words and phrases and their apparent&nbsp;sub-meanings simply 'strike me now', 'out of the blue' (being hit by something/coming&nbsp;from no determinate place from the sky or ocean) in ways that they didn't before. It's not that I wouldn't be able to notice or analyse these elements before and talk about them if I wanted to, it's that I an simply aware of them now whether I want to think about them or not as my mind simply seems to scan for them automatically, their significance is&nbsp;</span><span style="color: red;">perpetually</span><span style="color: red;">&nbsp;there in the back of my mind as they mingle with each other and bubble up to the surface of my consciousness.</span><br />\par
<span style="color: red;"><br /></span>\par
<span style="color: red;">Cocktail</span><br />\par
<span style="color: red;"><br /></span>\par
<span style="color: red;">Leave no stone unturned.</span><br />\par
<br />\par
<br />\par
<u>But even if we look at poems that use tools like rhyme as part of their construction, they can still be creatures far too strange for certain minds, take for example this excerpt from Eliot's 'Burnt Norton' [3] quartet:</u><br />\par
<u><br /></u>\par
<i><u>Garlic and sapphires in the mud<br />Clot the bedded axle-tree.<br />The trilling wire in the blood<br />Sings below inveterate scars<br />Appeasing long forgotten wars.<br />The dance along the artery<br />The circulation of the lymph<br />Are figured in the drift of stars<br />Ascend to summer in the tree<br />We move above the moving tree<br />In light upon the figured leaf<br />And hear upon the sodden floor<br />Below, the boarhound and the boar<br />Pursue their pattern as before<br />But reconciled among the stars.</u></i><br />\par
<u><i><br /></i>\par
If you are someone who, like me a year ago, has no sensitivity to poetry, note to yourself just how repulsive it it to read through this while trying to comprehend the imagery.</u><br />\par
<br />\par
<br />\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://veekyforums.com/thread/8004989/literature/koan-2.html<br"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://veekyforums.com/thread/8004989/literature/koan-2.html<br}}}\f0\fs22  />\par
<br />\par
<br />\par
[2]&nbsp;<a href="https://www.rc.umd.edu/editions/frankenstein/1831v1/intro">https://www.rc.umd.edu/editions/frankenstein/1831v1/intro</a><br />\par
[3]&nbsp;<a href="http://www.coldbacon.com/poems/fq.html">http://www.coldbacon.com/poems/fq.html</a></div>\par
}
 