{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 I want to get into the actual nitty-grity of the structures that are dependent on each perceptual modality here and illustrate them through example. So to start off I will try to preemptively define a number of key ideas. These ideas are a work in progress, I don't want to claim that they describe the structure of metered or beat based Art exactly or fully and any concept is subject to further revision if any new information or a counter example is given that demands that the ideas here need to be revised in order to account for it. These descriptions are abstract and technical, and they will not necessarily be immediately obvious or easy to understand, but I want to offer these definitions straight up so that they can handily be referred to as I explain how they work in context.\par
\par
- Canonical Sequence (CS): A 'grammatically well formed' sequence of words (in a recognized language) or notes (belonging to families of themes that have been encountered) that add up to a complete sentence or self resolving theme while spanning a metric structure (of a song or poem) in such a way that develops and resolves what is perceived (by EVPAs) as tension . The core concept here is a set or verbal/musical elements that are recognized by the language faculties as fitting into a form recognizable as being something that plays out in an expected and 'correct' or satisfying way, feeling subjectively like a sentence has been completed when finished and presented in full, while at the same time not being modified by Variant Addition or any Super Grammatical faculties. What counts as a Canonical Sequence isn't necessarily set at the outset when a given person encounters a given work though, as a person hearing a piece of music for the first time may not have heard the forms of the themes and motifs that make up the piece beforehand, or there may be words or forms of speech that they are unfamiliar with, even thought SGP seems to enhance the ability of a person to immediately learn and store these structures in an aspect of working memory. Break this section out. Along this line of thought, while canonical sequences may be considered part of some kind of formal language, it is more fruitful here in my view to consider the mental process of assimilating linguistic constructs as a continuous, ongoing and organic process, rather than something that results in a final, well defined set of constructs that either each are or are not valid as part of a single formal system.\par
\par
- Canonical Transformation (CT):  A modification of a Canonical Sequence (chiefly a musical theme constituting a phrase in this case), such that when it is presented directly after a previous CS, it is mentally interpreted by someone with EVP (whether or not they have SGP) as being a direct response to the previous CS in a way that parallels it. So, to give specific examples. Particular kinds of regular transformations of musical themes count as CTs, such as transposition to a different key and augmentation and diminution of note length, among others. Notably, the addition of embellishment and additional notes between other notes that fit into the overall structure are actually permitted examples of CTs and will generally be perceived by an EVA-SGN as sensible and meaningful transformations/continuations of a theme. Likewise with the implicit opposite, the deletion of notes on more minor beats in order to create a skeletal form of the melody, while preserving major beats and taking on the same shape within the metric structure, is also a valid Canonical Transformation. CTs essentially preserve the overall perceived shape and form of the theme. Things than an EVA-SGN will not feel are complete, valid thematic transformations that fit into the overall structure of a work are considered Advanced Transformations instead of canonical ones.\par
\par
- Full and Partial Enjambment: The breaking of a poetic line so that a sentence lying on it continues past the line's end before completing a grammatically whole valid phrase, creating tension across the metric lines it spans and ending the line 'weakly'. Especially impactful when the line end forms part of a rhyming scheme, to the point where the emphasis produced this might seem to go against this feeling of the line being incomplete (which is a notable phenomena by itself which I'll argue has its own significance). It's notable that I was unable to recognize or understand full enjambment until after I had developed Encompassing Voice, and because of this I believe that enjambment in unrhymed verse in only possible with SGP.\par
The feeling enjambment evokes when I encounter it across rhymed lines is very much the same as that of tonal tension across measures in music; so, as far as I can tell, EVP is likely necessary to process full enjambment through rhyme. However, I admit the possibility that enjambment was simply something I was not used to beforehand, and that I simply mistakenly interpreted line endings as full completions of a thought because I didn't know how to approach them or understand the kind of mental process involved in comprehending them. As such I may have been able to process enjambment earlier had I been informed of its nature, so I can't rule out the possibility that EVP isn't strictly needed for it. Even so, I'll assume for now this it is actually the case that enjambment is something that requires Encompassing Voice and that the mental equipment that allows a person to process lines ending on incomplete phrases, while also rhyming together, and appreciating this combination of elements, is specific to EVP.\par
I introduce the term full enjambment, as opposed to other forms, in order to distinguish between tension resulting directly from phrases that are immediately and clearly incomplete, and phrases that could be interpreted as complete initially (save for punctuation indicating otherwise), only for it to then be revealed on the subsequent line(s) how the phrase was actually a smaller part of a larger phrase, potentially encouraging retroactive reinterpretation as opposed to immediately clear tension, which I'll label partial enjambment. While both are ways of carrying tension through a line end, I use Full Enjambment to point out the least ambiguous cases of this, though I'm not entirely sure if it is possible to make a hard categorical distinction between the two in poetry, or if its a finer matter of degree that is difficult to define.\par
\par
- Variant Addition: Variant Addition is a process that arises out of SGP which acts on canonical sequences when they are presented in the context of a work of art, by allowing modifications and extensions of their structure and form. This is an 'advanced' transformation of canonical forms that isn't considered a Canonical Transformation. Variant Addition allows the extension of canonical structures by repeating subsections of them in order to elongate them, and for these elongated structures then then form parts of larger super structures (which may in turn be substructures of larger super structures). Doing so creates a Variant Structure.\par
One notable use of this is the ability to take a musical theme and, at the point where it would finish with a cadence (which typically, but not always, extends into the next measure), instead of actually playing the implied tonic key of the sequence, repeat the whole theme from the beginning instead. In this way the whole sequence, instead of resolving in order to be followed with another sequence after in response, uses an entire copy of itself which itself as a whole becomes the resolution in place of the final note that would have resolved the original. As such, this allows the structural delay of the resolution of a Canonical Sequence beyond what would otherwise be possible using only Canonical Transformations through various kinds of false cadence. But it isn't necessary to repeat the whole of a structure beyond the final part. Substructures within a sequence or theme, such as a single bar, can be made to repeat (though possibly subject to transposition and other such CTs) additional times beyond the number it appeared in a given canonical sequence. The point to understand is that subsections of a given sequence can be felt to respond to one another (as the person intuitively mentally tracks the substructure), while also keeping track of where this fits in to the super structure they are a part of, so that the super structure can continue where it left off when the perceived repetition ends. An SGPN can still follow along with parts of this kind, but they will not feel that they meaningfully contribute to the formation of larger super structures. These larger, variant structures can themselves be repeated, with the response mirroring those structural extensions, and this repetition can, together, potentially form part of a larger structure, with the listener/reader implicitly keeping track of the general form as a whole as they get used to feeling it out, using it to mold their structural expectations of  the rest of the piece. SGPNS without the ability to comprehend Advanced Transformations, on the other hand, will be limited to listening 'theme-by-theme', with no expectations that themes form part of larger structures built up through them. Often, and especially for more complicated structures, the 'listener' will have to re-parse their impression of the work if they didn't comprehend it previously, and following along with a candidate parse before revising this in light of additional awareness of the work and it's contents is frequently a normal part of taking in such works.\par
Hence, in this way SGP allows the structural extension of thematic material in ways beyond what is possible with just EVP, allowing the built up and resolution of hierarchical structures, where linear, sequential structures would only be possible with EVP alone. Because of this, themes and motifs can be embedded inside other themes (including themselves), in order to vary and be threaded through each other, even on a single instrumental line, and movement subsections and sections leading into extended cadences can be built up using these methods.\par
As a general principal of musical composition, the creation of structures out of tension that feel they ought to lead to a cadence, then suspending the actual cadence proper by the insertion of other, intermediate structures in order to extent the structure (creating a variant of a canonical theme), and allowing these structure to respond to each other (placing them side by side), in order to create multi-layered tonal hierarchies, is the signature process of variant addition when it operates on music.\par
I do not claim that this is in any way an exact process though, as it depends on the listener's individual interpretation and how they interpret subtitles of phrasing, along with the dramatic, empathetic and emotional drive of the music and their experience of it.\par
\par
\par
Now, having gotten that out of the way you may very well be confused. Don't worry, as I'm throwing out these quite abstract ideas in order to reference them later as I illustrate them with actual examples. You should note though, that so far I have mostly been relating these structure to how they occur in music. There is a reason for this. It is that I conjecture that the ability to perceive metric structure at all in more advanced forms of poetry, which lack a strict beat in time or rhyming to mark out lines and which rely on syllable emphasis and line breaks to form the block structure of their metre, depend on SGP in order for that metre to be apparent at all. As such, there is no metric structure to speak of in particular forms of poetry without SGP, and as such Canonical Sequences will not be perceived in the first place, just words forming what might otherwise appear to be barely grammatical or intelligible sentences. As a consequence, enjambment is of little meaning outside of rhyming or particularly musical poetry, as there will be no perceived structure to break across. Because of this I will add an additional definition.\par
\par
\par
- High Verse: Poetry, similar in kind to blank verse and free verse, where line endings don't necessarily have a clear structural marker (like a rhyming scheme) and which instead rely on mental processes implicit in SGP (like Variant Addition, among others) in order to allow a person to intuitively mark out their intended structure.\par
\par
\par
---\par
\par
It's probably important to discuss this, so I will mention that even without SGP, pieces are free to introduce new thematic material and melodies in addition to any previous material in any way that works out as loge as it fits in to the tonal and harmonic structure of the rest of the work. I'm deliberately going to be very vague about this, as the variety of ways that this can occur is naturally immense and involves some ambiguity as whether a given part is 'really' a transfiguration of a given theme or the introduction of new material or what interpretive stance you take on that. However, as long as each part is allowed to resolve as a Canonical Sequence, instead of having deeper structures intentionally built out of it via Variant Addition it will not perpetually violate a SPGN listener's expectations of resolution.\par
\par
---\par
\par
First off I want to talk about something I will call decoration bias. I want to speak about the kinds of things which can fit into a canonical sequence, or even a regular sentence or passage of music that doesn't hold any tension or fits into a metric surface without any disruption, as so can still be parsed by a SGPN, but which have a special importance when encountered with SGP. That is to say, when an SGPA encounters them in a beat based artwork, they will be felt to be especially significant in ways that an SGPN will not and can, as such, be used to redirect attention to particular features of the work in ways that will not be apparent to SGPNs. So in effect, SGP will bias the attention of the perceiver to particular features, or decorations, that otherwise would not be considered structurally meaningful. Some examples are as follows:\par
\par
-Melodic Inversion: Inversion of tones in music is something that, while technically a valid aspect of the development of a musical theme or motif that forms part of a Canonical Transformation, is not something that an SGPN will feel is particularly meaningful in its own right when used sequentially (i.e.the change in pitch of a given note compared to the previous in the melody is changed from down to up or up to down). Rather, an inversion will feel like a very distant and vague transformation that simply shares the overall beat structure of the notes regardless of the melody itself, but which happens to be 'upside down'. It's only with SGP that inversion stands out as a particularly notable feature that will strongly feel like a very close, but reversed, relative of the original melody.\par
\par
\par
 This piece (BWV525, mvt. 3) is a fantastic tour of large scale melodic inversion, but it might otherwise sound silly or pointless if this doesn't affect you. At about 2:05 you can hear the primary theme being played in inversion.\par
\par
-Alliteration and Assonance: These are poetic features that will direct the attention of an SGPA and inform their understanding of a poem's structure by highlighting things the poet wants to emphasize/connect up. SGPAs will intuitively feel that these features are meaningful and 'brighten up' the language, as if painting words with similar features a given colour to emphasize this relationship between them. SGPNs will not feel that these features will have this effect and may notice them, but won't see the mas a feature that naturally integrates into and shapes the poem in any significant way.\par
\par
\par
\par
Having established this we can start looking at various works. We'll start with Beethoven's 7th, which I've chosen because its use of theme is very regular and apt to be looked at in the light of these idea.\par
\par
The chief thing to note here is the structure and use of the primary theme and how it is used throughout the piece. Save for the first chord played by the winds, this theme starts off the movement repeating three times unadorned, varying only the pitch of the notes in its chords, before being raised up and having additional material introduced underneath to support it.\par
\par
\par
\par
The important thing to look at here is how this skeleton of the theme introduces a regular, straightforward beat structure that is used mostly consistently (until we get past the first 100 bars anyway) and that it also clearly ends on a strong, solid beat, which itself ultimately ends up resolving the piece and the thematic material, which means that it can act here as a Canonical Sequence in itself. An EVA-SGN should have no trouble following this theme through the majority of the movement, and the secondary themes will parallel it directly for most of its use. Things can start to get hairy around the 5 minute mark when things start to get mixed up for the fugato section where the theme does become abridged and has its material shoved into off-beats on occasion, but most of the movement is built around canonical structures that are amendable to being followed by EVA-SGNs. Here is an illustration of the basic structure of this part of the music, which should be understandable by EVA-SGNs.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
The red arrows each cover the course of each individual instance of a theme, while the blue ones indicate that the section of music they are coming from is a responds to the section of music being pointed to (which may in turn be a response to another, which responds to another, and so on). Both elements coincide here, but for reasons you'll understand later, I've illustrated all these elements to later contrast with examples that don't follow these 'rules'. It's important to note that each yellow+purple section represents the equivalent of a full instance of a theme, which is 8 bars in the Beethoven example being used (the purple 'End' representing the final bar).\par
\par
Even an EVPN should be able to gain some enjoyment out of the piece, though not without difficulty. The section at 2:50 (after bar 100) a will very well likely grate on the nerves of someone without EVPN, as the way this dramatic build up of the primary themes gives way to the softness of a separate melody with a differently structured beat will annoy the hell out of them and abruptly deflate the mood that the previous section built up (I suspect that this is likely why certain movie trailers that use such music will chop out sections where this happens). And given that EVPNs will not hear distinct vocal lines as such, the fugal section will naturally be incomprehensible to them as they will not perceive the strings as multiple layers of voices carrying different parts of the various themes simultaneously.\par
\par
To make it clear, here is what I predict individual experiences of those with specific perceptual modality will be like:\par
\par
EVN-SPN : Capable a of fragmented enjoyment of the piece (especially if one imagines visual imagery of forms of heroic conflict while listening) based around the more regular repetitive structure. After the bar 100 transition, will likely find the music transforms in a way that is repulsive and kills the mood of what they were imagining, with no clear way to reconcile how they expected the dramatic structure and pulse to continue with how it actually plays out.\par
\par
EVA-SPN: Capable of following the thematic material, its continuation and most transformation for the bulk of the piece. After bar 100, can perceive the introduction of new thematic material and its use to be a clear response to previous material. Can perceive multiple voices simultaneously in the fugato section, but will likely not be capable of following this structure in full.\par
\par
EVN-SPA: I have not experienced this so I cannot comment on what it is like to listen to music in this state, which is currently hypothetical and may not even exist as far as I know.\par
\par
EVA-SPA: Fully capable of following the whole work in principal. After bar 100, the cadence of the primary theme can be followed and interpreted as being continued through the three note motif that runs through the bass notes immediately after, with each string beat being interpreted as simultaneously the first and last note of the four note cell that the primary theme finishes on (I must note that I'm mentioning this specifically because I never noticed this before writing this article, and only after looking carefully for transformations of the primary theme did I become aware of this possibility. As such, I won't put too much stock in this, but I feel I had to mention it because it occurs at the same thematic transition point (bar 100) that I otherwise wanted to use to strongly illustrate the differences between EVN-SPN and EVA-SPN, and assumed that no significant SPA elements would occur at this point).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Now, for a contrast, I offer this. This piece is one that I have chosen because the backing beat is the simplest I know of that I believe, based on my own experience, EVA-SGNs will have trouble parsing.\par
\par
\par
\par
Here I have outlined how the basso continuo begins and repeats through most of the piece, from its inception (first bar here), through most of the repeating body (second bar between the repeats) and then onto the final bar of the main section at around 4:48 (third bar). I want to make it clear that the cadence (and the tonic key) falls on F, the note on which the motif begins, but each bar ends on a prolonged dominant, before falling to a shorter beat that starts the three quarter note length 'cell' (proceeding from quarter to half note, occupying half of each bar and a quarter of the continuo motif) that perpetuates through the piece. The relative shortness of the F note that begins each bar after the first makes it 'technically' valid but completely unsatisfying as the resolution to the previous bar. The melody quickly skips to the next note rather than offer an immediately satisfying resolution in itself (in contrast to the theme highlighted in the previous Beethoven example).\par
\par
So, if we accept that this way of hearing it is unsatisfying, than how might someone possibly reinterpret it in order to avoid this? By this I mean find a way of re-parsing the structure of the music, much in the same way that a person stumbling upon a semantic ambiguity in a sentence that results in them interpreting it in a way that doesn't immediately result in a sensible meaning or grammatical structure might re-parse it mentally to gain something that hopefully does end up making sense as a grammatical sentence (though here there is only musical feeling without concrete meaning) [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_processing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_processing}}}\f0\fs22 ].\par
\par
The answer is through Variant Addition, which I conjecture is only available to SGPAs.\par
\par
With the Montiverdi baseline, in which the resolution of each two bar section is implicitly the next bar, the starting note of which is generally way too short to offer a satisfying resolution until the final bar, the only way to listen to the piece that lets it really flow is to allow the mental processes behind Variant Addition to continually suspend the desire to hear the theme resolve with a strong solid F, and instead reinterpret each whole repetition of the theme body as an extension of the previous that parallels what has come before, until finally everything resolves at the very end of the piece. If you understand what I am saying and are confident that this is how you hear the piece, congrats, you have SGP. But if not, read on.\par
\par
---\par
\par
Here, I will try to take a structure from the piece that makes use of Variant Addition and modify it, taking sections from the actual piece and rearranging them to form a different composition, in order to create something else that is a Canonical Sequence which I feel represents parts of the total sequence and how the piece might flow were it 'reduced' to that. However, I don't believe there is any mechanical way of doing this, and in modifying the piece you will possibly end up with something that 'makes sense' as a Canonical Sequence, yet is invariably unsatisfying musically (in a sense, I'm essentially doing a re-composition similar in kind, but somewhat opposite of what Bernstein attempts in his lecture on musical syntax* here {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://youtu.be/r_fxB6yrDVo?t=1h1m"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://youtu.be/r_fxB6yrDVo?t=1h1m}}}\f0\fs22 ). In this case though, the simplicity of the structure makes this a seemingly easy task, and so in the audio clip below I offer a reduction of the theme into a simple canonical form.\par
\par
\par
AUDIO HERE\par
\par
\par
Zefiro Torna, Prime\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
But what if we do want to take this and use Variant Addition to add clear forms of symmetry to it, in order to illustrate what kind of things are possible in doing so? To this end, I've also created this expansion of the theme body, extending the theme that I've labeled prime.\par
\par
\par
AUDIO HERE\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Here you will notice certain features that were lacking in the more reduced form. For one, there are now many layers. each covering the other, which I use to indicate both how material is transformed (black arrows), and how it can constitute a response (blue arrows). Notably, I've put in black arrows pointing from one block section to another. These indicate how variant addition has allowed the extending out of a thematic structure by repeating part of its body (which is this case has been slightly modified by canonical transformation, slitting up a note to weaken the start of the body, creating Body2), which should enable EVA-SPAs to interpret this repetition as a delay of the actual resolution. Instead the whole of the second body instance, plus its resolution (Pause), becomes the resolution of the first body. This constitutes the theme indicated by the lowest red arrow on the chart.\par
\par
But wait, there's more of course. We can see that the end section of this thematic structure, which I've labeled pause, coincidences with the start of a second group of block-body structures that repeat the whole of the previous group verbatim, and which itself is another example of the variant extended body of the theme in its own right, which is represented by the second red arrow directly above the first. So here we have another repetition of the theme body, which overlaps the first and ends in the Full End, which consists of a dotted whole note. This creates a kind of thematic ambiguity.\par
\par
So here we have something interesting, we've extended out the body of the first theme once, then 'ended' it (thought only partially, as the melody still continues) by repeating a copy of the (still not totally finished) theme via using Variant Addition again on Body1+Body2 together, repeating it from the top to make another Body1+Body2, while fusing it to the original structure, then finally adding a full bar resolution on the end of it all.\par
\par
All this together creates the full theme and top layer of our piece, represented by the highest red arrow which (unlike the other red arrows below) fills out the whole of the top bracket without overextending. This, in a way, 'solves' our ambiguity. Both lower red arrow themes can be interpreted as being part of a 2x2 extension of the theme body, which runs through each of the 'joins' produced by interpreting the body structure as being doubled through parallel variant addition on both levels, then finally ends unambiguously and comes to a rest. Each level of variant addition takes part of a structure, uses a different kind of parallelism to imply to an SGPA that they can and should interpret that repetition as an extension of that structure (even if that substructure was created via a similar process) and in turn enables them to interpret the whole thing as a theme structurally extended out in a way that is musically significant.\par
\par
\par
---\par
\par
It should also be noted that even a sequence that consists of repeating substructures can be a full Canonical Sequence in itself, as long as it doesn't require SGP in order to comprehend the way the theme flows or how thematic material is used in it. As such, the primary theme of the second movement of Beethoven's 7th is very much a Canonical Sequence, with no need to be decomposed by 'reverse engineering' how it might be built up with Variant Addition, despite itself having repeating substructures within it (motifs formed by the four 2-bar subsections in each 8-bar theme). Each motif part of it ends appropriately enough and continues to lead into the next substructure (or ends the structure otherwise), but without creating an expectation that its own resolution is suspended and delayed to be resolved through the entirety of the next substructure (which should only be possible through Variant Addition and possibly other advanced transformations). Instead, each 2 bar motif is basically completed, while also setting up the next part of or instance of theme to continue. So while each part does flow into the next, each of the four motivic subsections can be divided up into two bars, the first which starts an expectation of the motif and the second which in part completes it before leading into the next. This is not necessarily a general rule which tells you what is a motivic part of a Canonical Sequence or what is a Variant Structure though, it's an illustration of the differences between these two examples and why each has been placed in the category that it is.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
The EVA-SGN understanding of canonical sequences within a given single voice is generally similar to continuously right embedded structure in language, with each theme running its course then, if not solidly ending in a cadence (determined by the 'strength' of the note and how it resolved relative to the global key that has been established). It should be noted though that the size of a meaningful cadence is strictly limited in SGPNs. Center embedded structures however, are made possible only by SGP.  Through this, SGP allows, through variant addition, subsections effectively resolving into a different key to be embedded in larger structures.\par
\par
To illustrate this, I will use the following diagram.\par
\par
INSERT DIAGRAM USING BACH EXAMPLE\par
\par
\par
It is still possible for a theme that starts at the same point the theme preceding it ended to be a response that is also a canonical sequence but in a different voice, as opposed to a direct response continuing in the same voice. Otherwise, if it is in the same voice, it will be perceived as a kind of running enjambment (where the whole subsequent theme is perceived as an extension of the resolution) that requires SGP.\par
\par
\par
Comments on cadences and how they fill out under variant addition here.\par
\par
\par
Part of why I am so confidant that SGPNs will be unable to comprehend Variant Structure is that I effectively spend years searching for structures like it, perplexed by my own inability to perceive anything resembling it despite expecting to be able to do so. I was told but lovers of supposedly 'well composed' symphonic music that part of why they loved it was that part felt like it should flow on from the previous, like it was in the appropriate place in a well ordered machine, and that in many cases they couldn't imagine it playing out differently and still working. Yet, despite having attained Encompassing Voice, I didn't feel that way at all, with most art music still feeling broken, disjointed and piecemeal, and it's cadences unnecessarily drawn out. I didn't know at the time if I was lacking in  any particular way, or that there was any abrupt state of mind beyond EVP that I might need, and so I assumed that if I was perceptive enough I would 'get it' somehow and that it must somehow be my lack of sensitivity or knowledge that was holding me back. I encountered comments by a composer explaining how the structural difficulties he would encounter in composing music were close to those of writing software, and how he could "write himself into a corner" in both cases creating structures similar in kind that extended themselves in ways that would prevent him achieving his goals. But even with my experience developing software, this didn't make a lot of sense to me.\par
\par
But in encountering Fred Lerdahl and Ray Jackendoff's Generative Theory of Tonal Music (GTTM) that I became even more perplexed. I wanted to make sense of it, and honestly believed I could if I thought about it hard enough, but I found that even on the most basic level it described features of music that I had no experience of. The grouping of things into hierarchical structures on several levels from the smallest sequence to the largest movement subsuming one another in turn, beyond that of the internal tension implied by thematic structures, was not something that I had ever felt was meaningful in any of my experience of music. I could see how certain patterns arose that much give rise to this hierarchical structure, or which might be intellectually analysed as such (especially while looking at a score or graphical representation of the music and looking for apparent similarities and parallel symmetry), but I didn't feel that any of these constructs had importance to musical structure independently of simply being part of a theme (which I now categorize as a canonical structure) or subsequent response. It is only now that I intuitively feel how parallelism gives rise to extensions and variants of structures, beyond being part of a thematic skeleton.\par
\par
In the GTTM, a significant assumption is made about the nature of the listener to whom the structures described are supposed to be apparent. That is that the listener is someone who is "experienced in a musical idiom", i.e. they have somehow learned or innately possess the cognitive capability and prerequisites required in order to understand the formal structures described, whatever that implies. This suggests an awareness that not everyone will perceive music the same way, which at least is something that accounts for differences of culture, and is something that agrees with my own theoretical framework and experiences. Leading on from that, I will make the suggestion that Lerdahl and Jackendoff's GTTM describes an experience of musical structure that is absolutely dependent on the possession of EVP and SGP, and that people not in possession of both cognitive abilities will not process music in that way.\par
\par
Intersection concerning Rite of Spring and it's rhythmic reliance on SGP.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
And to end it all I'll grant listeners a couple of pieces which I'm sure are capable of completely satisfying even those who otherwise neither have EVP or SPG.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
This being a particular favorite of mine. Enjoy.\par
\par
\par
* I do explicitly deny Bernstein's claims that the specifically ambiguity producing desire for symmetry in general discussed in this video is a universal property of the human mind as it applies to music. Rather I specifically want to claim otherwise, and that without having unlocked super grammar the desire for symmetry will be more limited, and that these ambiguities will not have all the large scale structural effects he talks about, though the establishment of strong and weak beats in rhythm is still meaningful with regards to it's use in the Mozart symphony referenced.\par
}
 